\# exec: groff hd.man -Tascii -man | less
\#
\# .TH cmd-name section [date [version [page-descr]]]
.TH hd 1 "11 Jan 2021" "NDC Tools Collection" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hd \- dump files in hexadecimal format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\# .SY command; .OP \-df...; .OP \-d cs; .OP \-f fam; ...; .RI [ parameter .\|.\|. ]; .YS;
.SY hd
.OP \-s
.OP \-b
.OP \-p
.OP \-j offset
.OP \-n bytes
.OP \-N bytes
.OP \-w bytes
.OP \-h
.OP \-v
.RI [ file .\|.\|.]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Write an unambiguous representation in hexadecimal bytes of FILE to standard output.
With more than one FILE argument, concatenate them in the listed order to form the input.
.PP	   
With no FILE, or when FILE is -, read standard input.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-s
Prints one-line string
.TP
.BR \-b
Prints the binary of one-line string hex dump.

.EX
% hd -s /bin/sh | hd -b > copy-of-sh
% hd -p /bin/sh | tr -d '\\n' | hd -b > copy-of-sh
% hd /bin/sh | awk 'BEGIN{FS=":"}{print $2}' /
	| tr -d '\\ \\n' | hd -b > copy-of-sh
.EE

.TP
.BR \-p
Prints without spaces and characters but in lines.
.TP
.BR \-j \ offset
Move to file offset first
.TP
.BR \-n \ BYTES
limit dump to BYTES input bytes
.TP
.BR \-N \ BYTES
same as -n, 'od' cmpt
.TP
.BR \-w \ BYTES
number of bytes to display per line
.TP
.BR \-h
Help screen
.TP
.BR \-v
Program information (version, license, ...)
\#
.SH SEE ALSO
\# command1(section), command2(section)
od(1)
.SH NOTES
I should have written it 30 years ago.
.SH AUTHOR
.MT nereus@\:freemail.gr
Nicholas Christopoulos
.ME
.br
.UR https://github.com/nereusx/unix-utils
Project page:
.UE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2020, 2021 Nicholas Christopoulos.
.br
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
\# EOF
